---
layout: interface
title: Moneta 0.6.0
interface:
  purpose: Key/Value Stores
  description: "Moneta provides a standard interface for interacting with various kinds of key/value stores."
  implementations:
    - File store for xattr
    - Basic File Store
    - Memcache store
    - In-memory store
    - The xattrs in a file system
    - DataMapper
    - S3
    - Berkeley DB
    - Redis
    - SDBM
    - Tokyo
    - CouchDB
---

## Installation

    > gem install moneta

## Configuration

Moneta does *not* provide a central `engine` option. This is for at least two
reasons:

1. each engine has its own initialization procedure, so configuration
   with just a `Symbol` (à la [multi_json](../multi_json-0.0.4))
   would be impossible

1. the author did not want to preclude using multiple Key/Value
   stores in one application

Thus, to avoid duplication, it is recommended that you assign your engine
to some constant in your application, as so:

    # in Gemfile:
    config.gem 'redis' # or 'xattr' or ...
    config.gem 'moneta'

    # in an initializer:
    require 'moneta/redis' # or 'moneta/xattr' or ...
    module MyApplication
      KeyValueStore = Moneta::Redis.new(:some => 'options')
    end

## Usage

The `MyApplication::KeyValueStore` object above will respond to
all of the following:

    #initialize(options)::          options differs per-store, and is used to set up the store

    #[](key)::                      retrieve a key. if the key is not available, return nil

    #fetch(key, &block)::           retrieve a key. if the key is not available, execute the
                                    block and return its return value.

    #fetch(key, value)              retrieve a key. if the key is not available, return the value

    #[]=(key, value)::              set a value for a key. if the key is already used, clobber it.
                                    keys set using []= will never expire

    #delete(key)::                  delete the key from the store and return the current value

    #key?(key)::                    true if the key exists, false if it does not

    #has_key?(key)::                alias for key?

    #store(key, value, options)::   same as []=, but you can supply an :expires_in option,
                                    which will specify a number of seconds before the key
                                    should expire. In order to support the same features
                                    across all stores, only full seconds are supported

    #update_key(key, options)::     updates an existing key with a new :expires_in option.
                                    if the key has already expired, it will not be updated.

    #clear::                        clear all keys in this store